CYCLE 1: CO1
1 Write a program to display the message “WELCOME JAVA”.
2 Write a program to read integer from the keyboard and check whether the number is
even or odd.
3 Write a program to print the leap years within the given range.
4 Define a class 'product' with data members pcode,pname and price. Create three
objects of the class and find the product having the lowest price.
5 Write a program to perform complex number addition.
6 Create a class CPU with attribute price. Create an inner class processor (no of
cores,manufacturer)and static nested class RAM(memory,manufacturer).Create
an object of CPU and print information of processor and RAM.
CYCLE 2: CO2
7 Write a Program which accepts the marks of a student into a 1D array from the
keyboard. Calculate and display total marks & percentage obtained by the
student.
8 Read two matrices from the console and perform matrix addition.
9 Read a matrix from the console and check whether it is symmetric/not
10 Program to sort strings.
11 Program to sort characters from a string.
12 Search an element in an array.
13 Program to create a class for Employee having attributes eNo, eName,Salary.
Read n employ information and search for an employee given eNo using the
concept of array of objects.
CYCLE 3: C03
14 Using the concept of method overloading find the area of different shapes
rectangle, circle and square.
15 Create a class ‘Employee’ with data members Empid, Name, Salary, Address and
constructors to initialize the data members. Create another class ‘Teacher’ that
inherit the properties of class employee and contain its own data members
department, Subjects taught and constructors to initialize these data members
and also include a display function to display all the data members. Use array of
objects to display details of N teachers.

16 Create a class ‘Person’ with data members Name, Gender, Address, Age and a
constructor to initialize the data members and another class ‘Employee’ that
inherits the properties of class Person and also contains its own data members
like Empid, Company name, Qualification, Salary and its own constructor.
Create another class ‘Teacher’ that inherits the properties of class Employee and
contains its own data members like Subject, Department, Teacher id and also
contain constructors and methods to display the data members. Use array of
objects to display details of N teachers.
17 Using the concept of method overriding, find the area of shapes Rectangle, Circle and
Square.
18 Create an Abstract Class ‘Shape’ with an abstract method find Area to find the
area of different shapes. Create subclasses Rectangle, Circle and Square from
Shape. Calculate and display area of Rectangle, Circle and Square
19 Create an interface having prototypes of functions area() and perimeter(). Create
two classes Circle and Rectangle which implements the above interface. Create a
menu driven program to find area and perimeter of objects.

CYCLE 4: C04 BATCH1 BATCH2
20 Write a program that demonstrates exception handling
mechanisms.
(a) ArithmeticException
(b) ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException
24/3/25
7/4/25
27/3/25
10/4/25
21 Find the average of N positive integers, raising a user defined
exception for each negative input.
22 Define 2 classes; one for generating a multiplication table of 5
and other for displaying first N prime numbers. Implement using
threads. (Thread class)
23 Define 2 classes; one for generating Fibonacci numbers and other
for displaying even numbers in a given range. Implement using
threads. (Runnable Interface)
CYCLE 5: C05 BATCH1 BATCH2
24 Program to find a maximum of three numbers using AWT.
21/4/25 24/4/25
25 Implement a simple calculator using AWT components.
CYCLE 6: C06 BATCH1 BATCH2
26 Write a program to write to a file, then read from the file and
display the contents on the console. 28/4/25 15/5/25
27 Write a program to copy one file to another.